Living as if the goal has already
succeeded is part of how the goals help
you get to the place. I've seen this in
businesses. Yeah. Where there's like,
oh, we have this goal. We're not going
to make
it. And that's where the creative
solution comes. That's where the the
thing that you you never thought was
possible could have happened. That's
when the team congealed, got together,
became cohesive.
[Music]
Welcome to the art of accomplishment
where we explore living the life you
want with enjoyment and ease. I'm Brett
Kistler here today with my co-host Joe
Hudson. Hey. Hey. Today we're going to
talk about goals. Why so many of us use
goals in such a way that makes us
miserable. and we're gonna talk about
how to use goals, how to set goals, and
relate to them in a way that makes us
more deeply connected to ourselves and
gives us the life that we want. All
right, Joe. Most people that I know at
least have a really shitty relationship
with goals. Either either they're
setting a ton of goals that they then
feel oppressed by or maybe a little bit
more of my flavor of they just avoid
goals so they don't feel oppressed, they
get to feel free, but then also kind of
lost. And then there's a whole bunch of
other [__] in the middle. Yeah. And you
know, we're here at our AOA offsite.
We've been here for a couple of days.
And what really struck me is the way
that you and Matia introduced the goals
and metrics into into our process, which
is this started a few months back. And
then we all delivered and reported on
our our goals for the first time. Yeah.
Yeah. In this way at this meeting and as
you opened that meeting, you started
with a story that was really compelling
to me. Uh it was a story about some
executive team and how they would
prepare for board meetings. Can you can
you elaborate on that? Yeah. Yeah. So
when I was a venture capitalist, one of
the things that I saw all the time was
the executive team
spending days presenting board
presentations. And so typically board
meetings were every quarter. So there
was like two or three days of
productivity lost by presenting
preparing presenting this deck to the
board. Then you'd have a whole day of
the board meeting itself or a good part
of a day with the board meeting itself.
And the other thing that I noticed was
that most of the time in the board
meeting was looking backwards, which is
far less effective than looking forward,
you know, like what are we going to do
next? How are we going to do it? What
how can we be of help? And
so that's what started getting me
thinking about what what what makes that
the case because if there's
alignment then the data that the board
gets should be the same data that the
CEO needs should be the same data that
the departments are creating a need for
themselves to be successful in the
departments. If a company is aligned,
one of the ways to tell if the company
is aligned
is there should be almost no time to
create the board deck. It's, oh, this is
what we look at. This is what you look
at. Your job is to see if we're running
the company well, so that you should be
looking at the same data that we look
at. And if we're creating data for you,
it means that we're not looking at the
things that we need to run the company
or the board is not looking at the
things that they need to help steer the
company. So that was that recognition
was the first one to hit. And then the
second one to hit is that I realized
that's the same internally as well.
Meaning oftent times we have this
critical voice in our head our board
which which is making yeah which is
saying here are your goals but it's not
actually the goals of the rest of the
system. So you know your body has a
different goal and your heart has a
different goal and maybe even your mind
has a different
goal, your trauma has a different goal.
So all these goals are not in alignment
with one another and especially not in
alignment with the thing that says I
should be married at 35 and why are you
so far behind or whatever that goal
making mechanism which is just another
form of self-abuse happens inside so
many of us and and that when there's
actual alignment in the goals the goals
do two things the first thing the goals
really their biggest job isn't to get to
them often times the goals are so limit
limited what we can get to is so much
greater than what the goals can even
like point at.
But the but the goals what they do is
they give you the right questions to be
asking. So, if my goal is to have a good
relationship with
you, it's going to be very [__]
different if than if my goal is to have
a a lifelong relationship with you or my
goal is to have a relationship with you
that
is like deeply
intimate or to have a relationship with
you that both of us um just feel
insanely grateful for on a on a on a
regular basis.
That is going to be a very different
thing. I am going to ask myself
different questions. I'm not especially
different questions than how do I get
what I want from you, right? Yeah. Or
how do I manage you to avoid my own
emotions? All those things. But even
just, oh, a good relationship with you
is like, oh, the question is, what do
you think Brett would want to do today?
I want to have a really intimate
conversation. I want to have a really
intimate relationship with you. One that
we both think we have a lot of gratitude
for. My question is going to be what is
it that I'm not saying to Brett? I'm
going to have different questions that
that comes from. If you in a company, if
your goal is how do we reach 10,000
people, it's a it is going to be very
different than how do we reach 100
people? 100 people, you and I can just
go door
todoor. 100,000 people, you and I can't
go to door to door anymore. We have to
do something different. And so, yeah,
like this.
So you ask the the goals you have
determine the questions that you ask.
And so it's more
about opening up creativity. Goals cano
open up creativity. And what I noticed
is that when people don't let go of
goals, it can open up a huge amount of
performance and
creativity.
So sports teams, can you imagine a
sports team that was like Uh yeah, I
don't really want
goals. Like they're playing the game.
They're like, "Yeah, we don't want to
look at the goals." And you see that
some like amazing performances happen
when somebody is behind, but they really
want to hit their goal. Like just some
crazy performances. I think about LeBron
James when they were playing the
Warriors and he just wanted that ring
for
Cleveland and he just did unbelievable
stuff. They were down. And it was like
the they he he they were I think
something like they were down three
games and then he won the next four
games and you could just see it was just
he had to take his game to the next
level to get there. I've seen this in
businesses all over the place. Yeah.
Where there's like, oh, we have this
goal, we're not going to make it. And
that's where the creative solution
comes. That's where the the thing that
you you never thought was possible could
have happened. And that's when the team
congealed, got together, became
cohesive. Well, it's interesting that,
you know, there's goal- based sports and
there's clear goals in business. Yeah.
There's also non seemingly non-goal
based sports. Yes. And, you know,
artistic endeavors that still have a
sense of direction and goals.
Like, base jumping wasn't something that
I was necessarily trying to achieve
certain goals, but there was always the
goal of don't die. And there was a
certain amount of fun to be had. And
there were always intermediate steps
like it would be really cool if I
achieved this unlock and was able to do
that. Are you able to safely make this
jump and repeat it? Yeah. I'm curious to
go a little bit into, you know, there's
areas in our lives where we're clear
that goals are literally the point like
in soccer. Yeah. And there's areas where
they're a little bit more implicit.
They're implicit but they're always
there. Yeah. And so if you think about
um a video
game, as soon as you said, "Wow, you
know what? Who you are as a human being
is going to be determined if you get to
the next level of Mario Brothers
and you believe
that probably Mario Brothers, which I
might have when I was four." Yeah, Mario
Brothers is probably not going to be as
fun as, oh, I'm looking at these goals.
This goal of like getting to the next
level is like, oh, that's that like I
want to do that. That's a cool thing.
Let's see if we can do that. Which is
like a great way to hold goals.
Oh, how do I do that? It opens up the
question, what's the thing to do? And if
you look at the way video games work is
the same way great goals work is the
goals are the thing that are present
that are in your wants that are the that
are the next step that get you to the
next step that gets you to the next step
and that's either in a company or that's
in with with yourself. Something you
just said that I want to double click
on. You said they are something that is
in your wants. Yes. Yes. And I think
that's key to how goals people make
themselves miserable with goals because
they might start in your want and then
your want drifts, but the goal hasn't
drifted with the want or it wasn't set
in a way that was really aligned with
your wants. And so you find
yourself chasing after goals that you
don't actually want anymore for the sake
of the goal. Yeah. I I noticed what I
know what you're talking about. I'm not
sure if it was actually in your wants to
begin with.
Often often where did the goal come
from? the voice in your head, the board,
the trauma, the so often times what I
see like in a company for instance is
goals that are bottom up where the what
are the goals of this team determines
what are the goals of this team
determine all the way up to the top with
the CEO's goals. They are often really
effective goals because there's they're
built from the wants of people. It's
also really effective the other way.
Salesforce has this thing. The CEO sits
down and says this is what I want and
these are the important things and then
everybody else can align around it. The
alignment is really really important.
The want is also really really important
and the want has to come from somewhere.
Mh. I but when the want isn't there when
everybody's doing it for somebody
else. I'm doing it for the board and
then I'm doing it for the CEO and
there's nobody who actually has that
want. It's like very difficult. It's a
similar thing from us. It like just
because the voice in the head said this
is what your goal should be doesn't mean
it's what we want, right? Yeah. I love
the idea of bottomup goals because you
know if a company gets everything the
CEO wants but nothing that any of the
employees want and it's unhealthy for
them, the company is not going to
survive. Correct. If I hit my target
weight and I'm my body's a total wreck
as a result rather than asking my body
what it wants and what it needs to
thrive and be be healthy and functional.
Yeah. Then that's a very different
place. Yeah. Yeah. And I and if I recall
the way Salesforce works is that there's
there everybody is being asked how they
participate in a way that works for them
and their team. I'm sure there's
struggle in it. There's always struggle.
There's always some friction and and
there should be some friction in goals
because we're there's friction in
getting to the next level with the video
game. There's friction in making your
mar taking your marriage to the next
level. Anything that we're taking to the
next level, there's going to be some
friction in
there. There is a place where when
people don't want friction that they
they start turning away from their goals
and
that's they're also turning away from
aliveness in that. So how do you know if
your goals are creating or inviting
friction that is constructive or
friction that is destructive or do you
want it? Do you actually want it?
Is that what I really want? And that and
your main your brain is just going to
say yes right away. That's how the brain
work. My goal is to
have my perfect mate or my goal is to
lose 20 pounds. Do you want to lose 20
pounds? Yes, I absolutely want to lose
20 pounds.
Yeah. Okay. You said it. Yeah. Right
away you didn't see you want it. I
didn't see you feel the wanting of it.
Yeah. Do you want the perfect mate or do
you want an ideal of perfection? Are you
are you are you indexing on an ideal of
perfection that's not actually a lived
experience or are you wanting to want
the mate wanting to want do I want to
want to get to lose weight or do I
actually want to lose weight and what
happens in a human system is people will
jump to yep I want it really quickly but
it's not actually allowing themselves to
feel that whole process in their system
and when they feel the whole process in
their system they might find out
something like actually I'm really
scared to be in a relationship because
my relationship between my mom and dad
was absolute [__] and I don't want to
recreate it and the last two
relationships I had I kind of recreated
it and I don't want that but I really
want to have okay so now what's going on
here now like now what you want is a
healthy relationship so is what you want
a mate or is what you really
want to learn how to have a healthy
relationship
How many CEOs are recreating the I've
got to cram for the test for my board?
All of them. All of them who crammed for
the test for the board are recreating
that. Meaning like the reason I said all
of them right away is because they are
recreating whatever it is that they
thought accomplishment was. You were in
our offsite where we're setting goals.
And we literally asked everybody, "What
does your heart want for yourself in
this business? What does your heart want
for the business? What does your heart
want for the community we
serve? That's that's where our goals
come from. It's not a head want. It's
like, oh, it's actually what what is
this desire that we have? And there's a
deep investigation of our own
wants. That's the one of the best ways
to really f uh refine what you're doing
in the world. One of the things I'm
picking up here is that like what the
head wants is almost irrelevant. It's
what you want, like what your heart
wants, what your body wants. What
wherever that want is coming from, your
head's job isn't to want it. Your head's
job is to help you get it. Figure out
how to get it. Yeah, there's a great way
to do this. It's super super simple. Um,
write down what you think you want that
you just went, "Yes, I want it." without
actually feeling it. And then just ask
like, "What's the need behind that
want?" And what's the need behind that
want? And what's the need behind that
want? And you just go keep on going
down. Oh, the need behind getting $12
million in revenue. Oh, that's the want
to be secure. What's the need behind
feeling secure? Oh, I want to feel like
I can actually make a difference in the
world. Okay, now we're like security and
making a difference in the world is
actually what what we're after. the $12
million is just our strategy to get
there.
And if you see the thing as a strategy
instead of the actual
want. And you see, oh, then making that
$12 million isn't about making $12
million. It is, oh, there's this way
that I'm going to be able to have impact
on the world. And you see that with
CEOs. The great example of this, which I
think I've talked about long ago on the
podcast, was that I had a girlfriend
who was really good at tennis in
college, and she served with her tennis
coach, and the tennis coach put out a
basket, one of those baskets you pick up
balls with, and said, "Serve and hit
it." And she hit it like two out of five
times or something, three out of five
times. And then he took that away, put a
quarter down in the middle of where that
basket was and said, "Serve and hit the
quarter." and she didn't hit the quarter
once, but she would have hit the basket
if it was sitting on top of that quarter
every time.
And there's a way in which that goal
makes you focus
through the thing. So the great CEOs
that I know, their goal isn't to make
money. Money is a necessity to get to
the goal. Yeah.
My goal
isn't, you know, to, you know, become
like self-aware
guru, but that my self-awareness is
really important to get to be a great
husband, to be a great dad, to be the
leader that I want to be. So the
self-awareness, which I do all the time,
I'm constantly practicing and running
experiments, is there to serve something
that's that's greater than itself. Yeah.
So it goes pretty deep like you can have
make $12 million $12 million in revenue.
That's like a tactic to serve the
strategy of make an impact on the world.
And what's the strategy for? What do you
get for making an impact on the world?
Right? And one thing that's interesting
is that a lot of our work, especially as
it goes really deep, Yeah. gets to a
really goalless sense of being. Totally.
And so there's a paradox in like here we
are talking about goals when a lot of,
you know, a lot of people come to the
art of accomplishment. They're like,
"Oh, yeah. This is what I want. I want
to accomplish things." Yeah. And then
we're like, we do some work with them
and it dissolves the goals that they had
and they're like, "Well, who am I?" And
we're like, "Great. Stay in that
question." Right. Right. Like what? And
then here we are like goals. Yeah.
Goals, bro. Like totally. So So that's
that's the thing is when I said earlier,
imagine you're playing Mario Brothers
and all of a sudden you have to you have
to do it or your self-worth is dependent
on you're not a good kid if you don't
make Mario Brothers. All of a sudden
that level of
force makes you resist the goal. And so
what the seeing yourself for what you
truly are to enter into the goalless
state it gives you the freedom to see
that the goals are not who you are.
Somebody asked me recently they said uh
why do you do what you do? Like I'm I'm
looking at your world. You I know you
don't have to do anything else and yet
you're coming out and you're super
ambitious, Joe. You're putting out
podcasts regularly. You're putting out
all this content. You're out there.
You're working with companies. you you
could just do one of these things and
and be successful. Like what's what is
driving you? And I said, "Oh, I I just
want more
Legos. I just I just like playing in
Legos. I just I just want to build [__]
Like, this is what I like doing. This is
my thing." I was like, "I know that's
kind of esoteric. Do you know what I
mean?" He goes, "Yeah, I have a like
Lego Titanic sitting behind me in my
office." Which what a lucky uh metaphor
I used. But that that that there is just
this natural part of us that wants to
play the game, that wants to learn how
to do the ali on the on the skateboard,
that wants to learn about ourselves
through the expansion of
doing stuff that we don't know how to
do. Yeah. Growing into stuff that like
that's that's that's our nature. And we
try to build meaning into it and I've
got to do it to save the world and blah
blah blah, you know, [__] all that. We
just we like building [__] It's it is a
very creative part and that's why it's
called the art of accomplishment, not
how to [__] accomplish it, you know?
Like it's because there's an artistic
quality to it and and art you do for the
sake of art. Yeah. Makes goals a really
interesting lit litmus test. Yeah. and
like breadcrumb back to yourself in this
way because yeah, like as we were
talking about earlier, it's many people
will create goals and oppress themselves
with them and maybe they're like really
accomplishment oriented. And then
there's people who do the opposite.
They're like, I don't want goals. I
don't want to oppress myself with them.
I'm just going to be free. You might pop
back and forth between the two because
neither is actually working. Yeah, I've
popped back and forth between the two
for sure. Yeah, I think most people
have. Yeah, but simply the way that you
relate to goals is a really good uh
indicator of how you're relating to
yourself. And you can trace your
relationship with goals and the need
behind the want. Play that need behind
the want game all the way to what is it
that you really want, which is coming
from just the place of being. Yeah.
Being who you are, being what you are
right now. What is the next impulse?
Where where is your next step, your next
evolution? Yeah. And then from there, of
course, goals will help you get that
goals will help you serve you in that
process. Yeah. So, we have this
tradition in our family. Every
Thanksgiving, we sit down and we all
talk into the phone and say, "What are
our goals for the next year?" So, we all
do this thing. It is not like a hardcore
process. We just know that we're going
to do this on Friday night after
Thanksgiving and we usually don't do it
till Sunday, but and then we just talk
out our goals like here are four or five
each each of us does it and then we
don't look at it again until the next
Thanksgiving and then we listen and
almost
always there's like five goals and three
or four out of the five goals were hit.
Huh? We're not thinking about it at any
there's just oh this is the thing that
we're we're expressing our heart's want
into the world and we're owning that
thing and and then whatever comes out of
it comes out of it. And sometimes it's
just very practical stuff like I want,
you know, I a house that I love to live
in. And sometimes it's
very I want a deeper relationship
with this person or I want business to
feel like this. in my system. So,
there's all sorts of different
interesting things that come out of it,
but it's it's held so gently. Yeah.
There's something really important about
that like setting the goal and never
checking it until the next year and you
find that it's complete. Set and forget.
Yeah. Yeah. That it's like how much is
it that the goal is actually just
creating an intention and the intention
is something that you are living. Yeah.
From that point. That's that's exactly
what a goal is meant to do. It's like
number one is it helps you ask the right
questions and number two it allows you
to know your intention and live into
that intention as if it's happening
right now. So what matters is that
you're living living that intention
following that want less that the goal
is even something you're tracking. Well
in business you have to track it for
alignment but right personally it's not
as necessary. But there's also living as
if the goal is there is already made. So
for instance, uh we recently had a
product that we created and we realized
that we were chasing some folks because
it was a new product and there was some
chasing that was going on and um this is
the council there was just like we don't
chase we don't want to as a company you
know this that we're not running after
people's attention
and but we noticed that we had done that
thing and in that way we weren't living
to our goals. Because to live to the
goals, to live in the goal, it's oh, of
course we have something
valuable, of course we will be
successful. Living as if the goal has
already succeeded is part of how the
goals help you get to the place.
And it's a it's an interesting nuance,
but it's
um if I'm playing basketball and I'm
playing as if I'm winning, as if I'm
going to win, as compared to, oh [__]
we're 10 points behind. I think I'm
going to lose,
right? Oh, I'm I'm not playing as if I'm
achieving my goal. And so I'm not
playing like a person who's going to
win. I'm playing like a person who is
losing. Right? That's another thing that
a goal really does is oh if we as a
company or if I as a person have this
how do I act how do I assume I'm going
to act on the other side of achieving
that goal and how is it to act like that
right now in the achievement of that
goal principles are the how am I going
to be in any area of my life correct
goals are where might I be oriented in
driving towards following those
principles correct Yeah. And so that
that's another thing that's really cool.
It's a great point is that like we
talked about it the early with the board
meetings. If there's alignment and the
principles are what ensure alignment in
the goals and then they help you see how
you want to live as if you've achieved
those goals
because you're you're
literally oh this is this is the this is
my north star. This is living as if I've
hit I've gotten to the place that I want
to
go and these this is how I know that
that they're in alignment. Those
principles really tell us if they're in
alignment. So I want to tie this up kind
of organizationally just because we open
it up that way and I want to deliver on
that promise. Yeah. So we've got
principles and the principles ensure
that goals that are set across the
entire organization are aligned and that
actions that are taken are aligned with
the company principles. Yeah, they do a
lot more than that, but for goals,
that's what they do. Yes. Yeah. And then
we have metrics. And there's there's
something that's interesting that we've
also been working with in in the way
that this company uses goals and
metrics. Yeah. Which is that the goal is
set by the person who has responsibility
for actually the outcome of that goal.
Yes. Right. And they have the authority
in our organization. And so
the metrics are the dashboard. So the
principle is how do you want to drive?
Mhm. The goal is the north
star and then the the metrics of the
dashboard. It lets you know how you're
doing, if you're getting there, what you
need to do to get
there. And that's the job. And
oftentimes people confuse the metrics
with the goals. And I think that happens
on a personal level and on a business
level all the time where people think
the goal is I want to be loved. The
metric is how
many people are my friends on Instagram
and the metric becomes a goal and then
you're not loved, right? Or is my wife
happy with me right now? Yes. Exactly.
Every moment. Exactly. Yeah. That's the
metric. The metrics don't tell me if
I've hit the goal. The metrics just tell
me, right? How am I driving? How am I
getting there? I think the other thing
that's just really important to say is
that
what I've experienced in life is that I
always have ended up in a lot better
place than I ever thought of was
possible with the goals. I've never been
in a situation, well, at least in the
last 20some years, where I look back and
think, I've gotten everything that I've
wanted. That's never happened. I've
never gotten everything that I've
wanted, but I've also never been able to
look back and say what I got wasn't a
[__] ton better than what I wanted.
There's a rigidity to goals that doesn't
encompass all of life. And living by
principles and knowing where your north
star is oftent times gets you to a place
much
better almost always than what you
thought was possible. I want that to be
a journey. I want that to be an
adventure. I want that to change me.
Yes. I want that to impact me. Yeah. And
the goal by the time I get there could
be like planting a flag on the mountain,
but the mountain was the per was the
whole point. Yeah. Exactly. That's
exactly
right. The the only other thing that I
would say about goals generally
is if you're in a business, the lack of
goals is often just an incredibly
horrible thing.
It doesn't mean destruction of the
business, but it typically means
non-alignment in the I've never been in
a business where there isn't shared
where there's no shared goals and
there's alignment. So, and people like
to be on teams that are aligned.
Everybody wants to win.
So, that's but also internally what I've
noticed is that I've lived life with
that with the rejection of goals. I
don't need goals. I'm just going to
enjoy myself in the moment. not
recognizing enjoying myself in the
moment was the goal.
Um, bringing the goal to
consciousness, there's a benefit to
that. There's also a downside. The
downside is now I'm going to beat myself
up and have shame if I don't have the
goals. So, it's really about how you
relate to the goals rather than if you
have them or not because everybody has
them. And for me, how you relate to a
goal is gently, with a lot of love, and
with awe and wonder, and not through
being defined by it. And typically when
goals go [__] nuts and [__] [__] up
is when people are defined by either
hitting it or not hitting it. That's
typically when it doesn't build the life
that you want, right? or when they're
not aligned in an organization and you
have an exec team that's giving the
board information that they're not
actually using to run the company and
the board feels like they're getting
false information or something that's
not quite right. And so my personal
experience of goals is when I make a
goal, I feel ecstatic. I'm like, "Wow,
this feels so good to make this goal."
And if we miss on a goal, and you saw we
missed on a lot of goals. We we hit our
high-end goals, which is great. We did
not hit a lot of the lower goals. Like
nothing in me is worried about it. I
learn, I grow. There was a failure that
we got to like hang out in together. As
a matter of fact, every single person in
our company announced at least one
failure that they did and everybody
applauded them and it was like this
wonderful thing. That was like a high
point of the It was like the high point
of the I was surprised about how much of
a high point that was when we were all
like celebrating our our failures was I
got more pleasure out of celebrating our
failures than I did on celebrating all
the successes we had. It was kind of
cool. And that that's the way to hold a
goal
is, oh, I can celebrate the win. I can
celebrate the loss. I mean, it's kind of
good sportsmanship in life is a is an
interesting way to put it. It's like we
got to play the game. We got to learn.
We're we're improving. And yeah, we we
really go after our goal. I mean, we
really go after our goals. Yeah. But
that doesn't mean that we are [__] up
if we're failing. Yeah. We're just we're
just growing. A critical component of
that is the word we. Yeah, there was the
connection that was really underlying
the the enjoyment and of course the
goals allow us to continue to do what
we're doing in connection and grow that
in a way that we're excited about. Yeah.
But it's about that connection. Yeah.
And internally it's about how connected
to us to myself do I feel? If I didn't
make a goal, whatever. Yeah. But Oh,
that's a great way to say it. Are your
goals helping you feel more connected
with yourself or not? Your personal
goals, are the goals in the company
helping you be feel more connected to
the company, the company more connected
or not? If they're not, then there's a
way to make those goals better. There's
a way to face those goals, to appreciate
those goals, to to to to work with those
goals that is far more meaningful
because that's what the goals do for me
and for this company. Yeah, I think for
all of us here, that's our meta goal.
like how how do we connect with
ourselves? How do we integrate? How do
we relate to ourselves and each other
more and more delightfully?
Yeah. And that and and our goals are one
mechanism to do that. Yeah.
Cool. Awesome. Thank you, Joe. Yeah.
Thank you, everybody.
[Music]